feat: Update for latest SQL timezone behavior (#5657)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/clustered/reference/sql/functions/time-and-date.md

{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}

## tz

Converts a timestamp to a provided timezone. If the second argument is not provided, it defaults to UTC.

```sql

> tz(time[, timezone])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tz(time_expression[, timezone])
```

```

##### Arguments

> - **expression**: time to operate on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **time_expression**: Time to operate on.
```

  Can be a constant, column, or function, and any combination of arithmetic operators.

> - **timezone**: Optional [timezone db string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) into which the value should be cast. Defaults to "UTC" if not provided
>   The function returns the timestamp cast to the correct timezone.
>   If an incorrect timezone string is passed, or the wrong datatype is provided, the function returns an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **timezone**: [Timezone string](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones)
  to cast the value into. Default is `'UTC'`.
  The function returns the timestamp cast to the specified timezone.
  If an incorrect timezone string is passed or the wrong datatype is provided, the function returns an error.
```

If a timezone is associated with the timestamp, then `AT TIME ZONE` will behave the same as `tz`.

`tz` will **always** cast a timestamp to the "absolute" time in a particular time zone. This is a time relative to the unix epoch that has then be converted to that point in time in a given time zone. This is useful when you have data that was written as UTC or epoch timestamps, and you would like to view them in a specific timezone.

{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "View `tz` and `::timestamp` comparison" %}}
```sql
SELECT
  '2024-04-01T00:00:20Z'::timestamp AT TIME ZONE 'Europe/Brussels' as time_timestamp,
  tz('2024-04-01T00:00:20', 'Europe/Brussels') as time_tz;
```

| time_timestamp               | time_tz                    |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| 2024-04-01T00:00:20+02:00    | 2024-04-01T02:00:20+02:00  |

{{% /expand %}}

> {{< /expand-wrapper >}}

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
##### Differences between tz and AT TIME ZONE

`tz` and [`AT TIME ZONE`](/influxdb/clustered/reference/sql/operators/other/#at-time-zone)
differ when the input timestamp **does not** have a timezone.

- When using an input timestamp that does not have a timezone (the default behavior in InfluxDB) with the
  `AT TIME ZONE` operator, the operator returns the the same timestamp, but with a timezone offset
  (also known as the "wall clock" time)--for example:

  ```sql
  '2024-01-01 00:00:00'::TIMESTAMP AT TIME ZONE 'America/Los_Angeles'
  
  -- Returns
  2024-01-01T00:00:00-08:00
  ```

- When using an input timestamp with a timezone, both the `tz()` function and the `AT TIME ZONE`
  operator return the timestamp converted to the time in the specified timezone--for example:

  ```sql
  '2024-01-01T00:00:00-00:00' AT TIME ZONE 'America/Los_Angeles'
  tz('2024-01-01T00:00:00-00:00', 'America/Los_Angeles')
  
  -- Both return
  2023-12-31T16:00:00-08:00
  ```

- `tz()` always converts the input timestamp to the specified time zone.
  If the input timestamp does not have a timezone, the function assumes it is a UTC timestamp--for example:

  ```sql
  tz('2024-01-01 00:00:00'::TIMESTAMP, 'America/Los_Angeles')

  -- Returns
  2023-12-31T16:00:00-08:00
  ```

  ```sql
  tz('2024-01-01T00:00:00+1:00', 'America/Los_Angeles')

  -- Returns
  2023-12-31T15:00:00-08:00
  ```

{{< expand-wrapper >}}
{{% expand "View `tz` and `::timestamp` comparison" %}}

```sql
SELECT
  '2024-04-01T00:00:20Z'::timestamp AT TIME ZONE 'Europe/Brussels' as time_timestamp,
  tz('2024-04-01T00:00:20', 'Europe/Brussels') as time_tz;
```

| time_timestamp               | time_tz                    |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------- |
| 2024-04-01T00:00:20+02:00    | 2024-04-01T02:00:20+02:00  |

{{% /expand %}}
{{< /expand-wrapper >}}
~~~
